In the draft file CDM_assimilation_visual_rhetoric, I captured the main elements, patterns, and textures
that I wanted to depict in my visual rhetoric project. 

Idea of project: 

Through this project, I wanted to depict that although the 'puzzle', or whole story, of the Native people is not complete (shown by
the negative space within my project), Assimilation is not part of this puzzle at all, and will not help mainstream America
understand, care for, or work with the Native population in any way. Assimilation simply does not fit in this story, because
losing culture, tradition, clothing, and hairstyles also means losing dignity, identity, and purpose. Is this what we would wish on any 
people group? I would most certainly hope not. This is the main message that I tried to get accross in my project. 

I used a old wooden table texture for the background, because 1) this is the type of table that a puzzle is usually built upon and 2) as
opposed to a sleek/modern texture like granite or steel, the wood is more grounding, and reminiscent of the Yakama reservation specifically,but also, more broadly, the importance of firewood to all Native people. Firewood is not only a source of heat, but also a main form of cooking fuel, and so is used regularly by many on the Yakama reservation. Being able to use a wood texture in my visual piece, then, is crucial to capturing this detail. 

GIMP skills/features: 

Primarily, I focused on learning as much as I could about the puzzle feature under the filters/pattern/render options,
because the puzzle-theme is central to the project. I used three pictures of kids that I had interacted with during my time
on the Yakama reservation, and applied the puzzle feature to create the idea described above. 

Future directions: 

I realized after creating this draft that I need to add pictures, and reduce the amount of negative space. Also, instead of having the pictures in three separate locations, I'm going to try to include more pictures and bring them together, so that they actually form connecting puzzle pieces. Further, the font of the text needs to be changed, and modified slightly to fit the overall emotion/theme I want to depict. I think the color(s) of the text are satisfactory, however. 
I also realize the puzzle pieces are not quite distinct; to try to make these spaces more clear, I'll include more of a bevel, or perhaps change the style of the puzzle pieces to create this disinction. 
